April 25, 2017 - Houston Energy Data Science Meetup
“The Blockchain Unleashed: Chemicals and Petroleum Industry Impact and Opportunities”

Overall I really enjoyed my first Data Science meetup. I was excited to find it catered with free food and drink. That obviously wasn’t why I went but it was certainly a plus once I got there. Once the talks began and everyone sat down, I looked around out of curiosity and counted the number of women, and it seemed to be about 10% of the crowd. I was not necessarily surprised by the gender disparity, but definitely took note of it, perhaps because the first speaker was a woman.

When I first got to the meetup, the easiest place to start up a random conversation ended up being the bar which was no surprise. I met a man named “Tall David” (also his Twitter handle). He was very friendly and we ended up talking about all sorts of things such as beer, traveling to Europe, biking photography, lasers/physics. We sat together for dinner/the talks. He has his own small business which he is trying to direct more towards Data Science. There was a space left at our table, and I was lucky to have one of the groups’ organizers sit down with us. She was also very friendly. I’m not sure where/what she was working previously, but she said in the last 2 months she had just started working indppendently as a consultant, helping get differenet people together to gget projects started, etc. She sounded like quite the networker. When the talks began and we both pulled out our notebooks, I had us “cheers” our pens together.

I was initially interested in Blockchain technology because it is the tech behind Bitcoin. But I really had not done any prior reading or research on it, so about halfway through the talks I started to get a bit lost. What I walked away with was that it essentially an electronically verifiable contract, that is multifaceted so that certain pieces can be shared with various parties, but other pieces are kept secure, etc. The speakers were mostly from IBM, which seems to be focused pretty heavily on developing the technology. What I walked away with is that Blockchain is freeing up large amount of capital by allowing processes to go faster, and contract fulfillment to happen sooner, by around 10 fold. 

Before the event, I took Raj’s advice in one of the videos and offered to volunteer to help clean up, etc. I contacted the organizer beforehand, but did not hear from him. I also ended up having to leave as soon as the talks ended because it was getting late and I had some errands to run still before going home. (I made sure to give my card to David and the Chaime before I left. It was my photography card, which is not necessarily relevant, but also very interesting as there is a photo of someone fire breathing on it. When I handed it to her, Chaime said she was terrible with creative/design stuff and might actually call on me for such things if it came up.) 

Francisco, the organizer that I sent a message to beforehand, contacted me after the event and said he is trying to start some kind of media/ newsletter for the organization. I have a bit of research to do before I really know exactly what he wants, but this may actually turn into a small paying gig opportunity.
